---
layout: post
title: 'New Release: v1.8.0'
excerpt: ''
---

We are proud to announce Gnome Commander version 1.8.0. This release comes with some changes
behind the scence wich are especially important in the build process: From now on gettext is
used for translating strings, the usage of gnome-autogen.sh is dropped in favour of
gnome-doc-uitls and the yelp-tools are now used for the documentation infrastructure. All
compiler warnings (from GCC) have been removed and also some minor bugs have been found and fixed.

The quick search can now be activated by starting to type a character without hitting another
key like Ctrl or Alt. Also we added two options for not saving the history of the command line
and the search history. Another option was added to leave the terminal open after executing a
command in a terminal, usefull for example when a command in the command line is executed with Shift+Enter.
Give it a try, you will like it.

Last but not least we again want to thank all the translators contributing with so many commits.
Thank you all, you did a great job!

See the full changelog below.

-----

### New features:
* Quick search can be activated by just typing a letter, adjustable in the options tab
* Option for saving/not saving the command line history on exit
* Option for saving/not saving the search history on exit
* Added a settings option for deciding if the terminal window should stay open when a command finishes
* [Do not](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GnomeCommon/Migration) use gnome-autogen.sh anymore (many thanks to Philip Withnall and David King)
* [Translations](https://wiki.gnome.org/MigratingFromIntltoolToGettext) are now handled by upstream gettext instead of intltool
* [Use](https://wiki.gnome.org/action/show/Initiatives/GnomeGoals/NewDocumentationInfrastructure) yelp-tools instead of gnome-doc-utils for documentation infrastructure

Other changes:
* Increased minimum GTK version from 2.8.0 to 2.18.0
* Code cleanup (Thanks to Mamoru and Andreas for contributing)

Bug fixes:
* Python is now found at build time when its version is >= 3.0

New or updated translations:
* ca (Jordi Mas)
* cs (Marek Černocký)
* de (Mario Blättermann)
* eo (Kristjan Schmidt)
* es (Daniel Mustieles)
* fi (Jiri Grönroos)
* hu (Balázs Úr)
* id (Kukuh Syafaat)
* pl (Piotr Drąg)
* pt_BR (Rafael Fontenelle)
* sl (Matej Urbančič)
* sr (Мирослав Николић)
* sr@latin (Мирослав Николић)
* sv (Anders Jonsson)

New or updated docs:
* cs (Marek Černocký)
* de (Mario Blättermann)
* es (Daniel Mustieles)

*[GCMD]: Gnome Commander

