---
layout: post
title: 'New Release: v1.12.0'
excerpt: ''
---

The Gnome Commander team is proud to announce the release of Gnome
Commander **v1.12.0**. The new version comes with a number of new
features and bugfixes after over 300 commits since v1.10.3.

Gnome Commander finally started to migrate away from GnomeVFS to GIO and
gvfs. So most of the changes are of technical nature. But there is
already a nice change when clicking on a file: From version 1.12.0 on,
the "usual" default application is used to open a file and not some
"random" applications (which were picked by GnomeVFS). Also, the
internal viewer got a new scrolling feature for images.

As the maintainer I would like to thank all the people who contributed
to this release. A big 'Thank you!' goes also to the translators from
the [Gnome translation teams](https://l10n.gnome.org/teams/). You did a
great job in the past weeks! _Mamoru Tasaka_ provided great code
improvements and patches. Also I want to thank the people on the mailing
lists for the open discussion about the program. Thanks go also to
_Roman Pauer_ and user _moon300_ for opening bug reports on GitLab.
That's really appreciated.

-----

### List of new features
 * Gnome Commander depends on GIO now. Migration away from GnomeVFS is ongoing
 * Use GIO instead of Gnome-VFS for opening files with default application
 * Use GIO instead of Gnome-VFS for filtering the file list, and on various other parts of the program

### Bug fixes:
 * Fixed issue [#95](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-commander/-/issues/95) (InternalViewer: Scrolling images via mouse, mouse scroll wheel or keyboard arrow keys)
 * Fixed issue [#96](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-commander/-/issues/96) (Segmentation fault when opening file/directory properties using keyboard)
 * Minor memory optimizations

### New or updated translations:
 * ca (Jordi Mas)
 * cs (Marek Černocký)
 * da (Ask Hjorth Larsen)
 * de (Mario Blättermann, Stephan Woidowski, Tim Sabsch, Wolfgang Stöggl)
 * eo (Kristjan Schmidt)
 * es (Daniel Mustieles)
 * eu (Asier Sarasua Garmendia)
 * fi (Jiri Grönroos)
 * hu (Balázs Meskó, Balázs Úr)
 * id (Andika Triwidada, Kukuh Syafaat)
 * kk (Baurzhan Muftakhidinov)
 * pl (Piotr Drąg)
 * pt_BR (Rafael Fontenelle)
 * ro (Daniel Șerbănescu)
 * sl (Matej Urbančič)
 * sr (Мирослав Николић)
 * sv (Anders Jonsson)
 * tr (Sabri Ünal)
 * uk (Yuri Chornoivan)

### New or updated docs:
 * cs (Marek Černocký)
 * de (Mario Blättermann, Stephan Woidowski)
 * es (Daniel Mustieles)
 * sv (Anders Jonsson)

*[GCMD]: Gnome Commander
