---
layout: post
title: 'New Release: v1.16.0'
excerpt: ''
---

The Gnome Commander team is happy to announce the release of Gnome
Commander version **1.16.0**.

In this release we are getting rid of autotools and replace them by the
Meson build system. This will change the way how you build and install
Gnome Commander from source code. If you install Gnome Commander through
your Linux distribution software center, nothing will change, though.

A big shout-out goes to Roman Pauer who made a lot of changes under the
hood of the program. With his help, Gnome Commander becomes a lot more
stable again, since there have been some bugs related to the file
transfer which sometimes crashed the program. Also, he brought back the
internal search of Gnome Commander, which has been removed in version
1.14.0 because of some unsolved glitches.

A small improvement was also added by Dennis Gert Rebentrost, who added
a menu button for only selecting files.

And as always, a lot of translators contributed to Gnome Commander.
Thank you all for that!

-----

### New feature:
 * New menu entry for (un)selecting only files (Thanks to Dennis Gert Rebentrost)
 * Restored internal search after it was removed in version 1.14.0 (Thanks to Roman Pauer)
 * Migrated build system from GNU autotools to Meson (see issue [#117](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-commander/-/issues/117))

### Bug fixes:
 * Fix for showing wrong progress percentage when transfering files
 * Get rid of several deprecated Gtk2 widgets (Thanks to Roman Pauer)
 * Fixes for copy/move; Fixes for canceling copy/move operations (Thanks to Roman Pauer)
 * Fixes for delete operation; Allow cancelling deletion of files; Fix for progress dialog (Thanks to Roman Pauer)
 * Fix for creating directory with enabled Samba support (Thanks to Roman Pauer)
 * Fix for disabling all plugins (Thanks to Roman Pauer)
 * Fix for some errors on console (Thanks to Roman Pauer)
 * Fix for changing the color scheme (Thanks to Roman Pauer)
 * Disable beeping when reaching the end of the file list
 * Various minor code improvements

### New or updated translations:
 * cs (Marek Černocký)
 * da (Alan Mortensen)
 * de (Jürgen Benvenuti)
 * es (Daniel Mustieles)
 * eu (Asier Sarasua Garmendia)
 * hu (Balázs Úr)
 * id (Andika Triwidada)
 * id (Kukuh Syafaat)
 * ka (Zurab Kargareteli)
 * nl (Hannie Dumoleyn)
 * nl (Nathan Follens)
 * pl (Piotr Drąg)
 * pt (Hugo Carvalho)
 * pt_BR (Rafael Fontenelle)
 * ro (Daniel Șerbănescu)
 * ru (Sergej A)
 * sl (Matej Urbančič)
 * sr (Мирослав Николић)
 * sv (Anders Jonsson)
 * tr (Sabri Ünal)
 * uk (Yuri Chornoivan)

### New or updated docs:
 * cs (Marek Černocký)
 * ru (Олеся Герасименко)
 * sv (Anders Jonsson)

*[GCMD]: Gnome Commander
