---
layout: post
title: 'New Release: v1.18.0'
excerpt: ''
---

The Gnome Commander team is happy to announce the release of Gnome
Commander version **1.18.0**.

This release is awesome because it contains the migration from Gtk-2 to Gtk-3. This great achivement would not have been possible without the work of Andrey Kutejko. Thank you very much for this!  

This release focuses on modernizing the codebase, improving the user interface, and ensuring future compatibility with Gtk4 (Andrey already started with migration work for this), while also addressing bugs and enhancing internationalization support. Enjoy!

As always, a lot of translators contributed to Gnome Commander. Also, I want to thank everyone who reported issues on GitHub. This work is also very appreciated.

Thank you all for that!

-----

### New Features and Improvements:
 * Refactoring and Modernization: Significant code refactoring, including decoupling various components such as GnomeCmdDir, GnomeCmdDirIndicator, GnomeCmdFileSelector, and GnomeCmdCmdline for better modularity and maintainability.
 * Event Handling Overhaul: Transition from traditional event handling to modern GtkEventController, enhancing responsiveness and reliability.
 * Enhanced User Interface: Multiple UI improvements, including replacing deprecated GtkMenu with GtkPopover, and updating various dialogs and popups for a cleaner look.
 * Improved Icon Handling: Shift from GdkPixbuf to GIcon for icon management, optimizing resource usage and improving performance.

### Bug fixes:
 * Fix for double g_error_free call (Mamoru Tasaka)
 * Improved stability

### Miscellaneous:
 * Removed Redundant References: Cleaned up the codebase by eliminating unnecessary references.

### New or updated translations:
 * ca (Jordi Mas)
 * cs (Daniel Rusek)
 * da (Alan Mortensen)
 * de (Jürgen Benvenuti)
 * es (Daniel Mustieles)
 * eu (Asier Sarasua Garmendia)
 * hu (Balázs Úr)
 * id (Andika Triwidada)
 * ka (Ekaterine Papava)
 * kk (Baurzhan Muftakhidinov)
 * pl (Piotr Drąg)
 * pt (Hugo Carvalho)
 * pt_BR (Enrico Nicoletto)
 * ro (Florentina Mușat)
 * ru (Sergej A.)
 * sl (Martin)
 * sr (Мирослав Николић)
 * sv (Anders Jonsson)
 * tr (Sabri Ünal)
 * uk (Yuri Chornoivan)

### New or updated docs:
 * sv (Anders Jonsson)
 * ru (Sergej A.)

*[GCMD]: Gnome Commander
